Welcome to the institute recruit before we install anything.
Let's have a quick crash course of how to use your command line.
We're going to be using the command line later on to run Python scripts.
The things we cover are just the basics how to find your current directory at the command line how to
list all the files and folders in a directory how to change directories and then how to clear the command
line screen.
These are just the basic things we need to know before we actually install Python now because of slight
differences of command line syntax.
There's going to be differences.
If you're on Mac OS or Linux or if you're on a Windows computer because of this.
Go ahead and jump to the time stamps shown here in order to actually follow the commands for your particular
operating system.
OK.
Windows users can essentially keep watching we're going to jump directly to Windows.
And if you're on Mac OS jump to the time stamp shown here.
Welcome back recruit.
So you're on a Windows operating system and you need to learn how to use the command line.
The first thing we need to do is actually open up our command prompt.
Let's see if we can find it at your computer to find the command prompt.
All you need to do is search for the term see M.D.
And you should be able to find command prompt as the best match.
If command prompt doesn't show up when you search CMD.
Instead just search for the whole phrase command prompt and then you should see command prompt.
Desktop.
Once you've opened up your command prompt you should see something that looks like this.
Let's start off by finding out where are we currently located.
Basically what's our current directory.
I can use the command line to interact on my computer but to actually perform those interactions I need
to know where I'm at on my computer.
You can think of this as basically programmatically moving around through files and folders on your
computer.
You can type out CD the hit enter and this will report back your current directory.
Now you'll notice the command prompt actually basically gives you the file path over you already are.
But sometimes it's the file path is really long or you're dealing with more complex things like virtual
environments or installations.
It's always a good idea to check your current directory by typing CD.
Sometimes things like the Anaconda prompt will have other directories in parentheses.
You can always confirm your current directory by typing a CD enter and that reports back where you are.
So I can see right now I'm under this particular user's folder.
If I wanted to figure out where all the files and folders located in my current directory were or are
I can type d i r.
Hit enter.
And that reports back the contents of my directory.
I can see here that there is a desktop.
Documents downloads as well as some hidden files denoted by starting a fit.
But basically this is everything that's in this folder see users Marysia I can scroll down CCSB files
pictures.
Now lets imagine I wanted to actually move into one of these sub folders.
What I can do is type CD and then the name of that folder.
For example if I wanted to change directories to my desktop location I can type CD change directory
space and the desktop to enter and now that my desktop and I can type CD to confirm that I'm at my desktop
if I want to go back up it their.
All I need to do is type see the space dot dot or period period to enter and I've moved back up a directory.
Now you don't actually need to type in the entire file path.
If you're moving around what you can do is say CD begin typing such as the letter D that hit tab and
you should be able to see autocomplete for you.
So as I hit tab I get the various options of everything that starts with a capital D so I can go to
documents enter and then if I wanted to see all my documents I can type D R and we can see all our documents
here.
Again if I want to go back see the space thought and if ever I want to clear my entire command line
screen I can type CLX and I've cleared the entire screen.
All right.
That's really all the basics we need to know for right now.
Just to review CD for current directory Diyar to list everything in my directory CD and then the name
of the folder that I want to jump to.
For example if I want to go to downloads CD downloads again you can hit tab to autocomplete And if we
ever want to jump back up CD.
But if we ever want to clear the screen it's seamless.
That's the basics you need to know.
Great job recruit.
We'll see you at the next lesson where we discuss how to install Python.
Welcome back recruit.
Now it's time to discuss Mac OS and Linux command line.
If you only have a windows computer and you just watch the windows command line tutorial you can feel
free to skip the installation of Python lesson.
Now let's go ahead and show you how you can use the command line or terminal at Mac OS and Linux systems.
The first step is to actually open it up to begin working of the command line on a Linux or Mac OS.
You first need to open up your terminal search your computer for terminal your Mac OS or Linux.
It's called the same thing and then open up your terminal.
You should eventually get something that looks like this.
The colors or fonts may be slightly different but the basic idea is the same.
The terminal gives you a command line interface and the command line interface allows you to move around
different files or folders on your computer and with some more advanced functionality you can also make
new directories or remove directories.
We don't really need to know that right now.
All we really need to know is how to understand what our current working directory is changed directories
and just move around.
This basically allows us to move around the computer at the command line.
The first thing we want to know is where we're currently located to know that type PWT enter and this
will print your working directory.
This is where you're currently located at the command line if you want to understand what files and
folders are located at your current location type L S and then enter a should see a list of different
files and folders at your current directory.
If you ever want to move to one of those files or folders where you can do is type CD and then whichever
file or folder you want to go to however it should be in the list that was just printed.
For example let's move to our desktop so I will come back down here and type see the desktop enter.
And now if I type PWT when I hit enter again I'm now at my desktop.
If you ever want to clear your screen just type clear enter.
And now you've been able to clear your command line.
If you ever want to go back up a directory just see the space thought hit enter and now we're back up
a directory which I can confirm by typing PWT.
That's really all we need to know.
As far as the commands are concerned let's have a quick review.
To print your working directory it's PWT and this report's back.
We are currently located.
If you want to know the files and folders at your current location.
Type ls and this will list all the files and folders if you want to clear your command screen type clear
enter.
This will clear your command line if you want to change directory to a subfolder type CD and then you
can even begin typing the names such as desktop.
And if I just desk and then hit tab it should auto complete.
If you do not get an auto complete by hitting tab that's probably a good indicator that it's not a direct
subfolder of your current directory but then you can type CD the name of the subfolder or sub directory
and then we can see now we're located here by taping PWT.
If you ever want to go back up type CD space thought OK that's the basics of moving around through the
command line.
We're going to be using that later on when we run Python scripts at the command line.
Great job recruit.
We'll see you at the next lesson where we discuss how to actually install Python onto your computer.